@mainpage mainpage
@tableofcontents

@section title_and_authors 1. Project’s title and the authors

Title of the project is Grayscale Conversion and it was realized by a team of 3 members:
- Konrad Walas
- Marcin Filipek
- Adrian Furman

<DIV STYLE="width: 500px">

@section description 2. Project description

Reasons to use grayscale conversion are various, for example artistics or in order to extract some details from photos in special medicine visualisations. In most cases basic functions built in numerous simple graphics editors are not enough to obtain satisfying results. Main idea of the project is to allow user to decide how much informations from red, green, blue channels should be included in brightness of the final photo. Moreover program allows user to decide if he/she want to keep any color and it’s hue.

<DIV>

@section assumptions_and_requirements 3. Initial assumptions and requirements

Program displays user interface with menu and area for live preview of the transformed image.
Program allows user to load images which will be manipulated then.
Program allows to save converted image
Using sliders on sidebar menu user can choose proportions between colours channel mixture, from -200% to 200% each.
To image converted to grayscale user can apply duotone.
Program show live preview of the image by its thumbnail whose longer edge is no more than 500px long.

<BR>
<BR>

@section project_analysis 4. Project analysis

@subsection input_specification 4.1	Input specification

User can load images from filesystem, manipulate various parameters (channels, hue, tolerance etc.) by dragging sliders, click buttons to apply specific conversion and choose color from window dialog. Program supports all popular image formats provided by wxWidgets function wxInitAllImageHandlers().

Additionally it is possible to load all parameters from configuration file.

@subsection output_specification 4.2 Output specification

On panel there is live preview of the modification on the image. User is able to save results of the work in all popular image formats. What’s more current set of parameters can be saved to a config file.

@subsection data_structures 4.3 Data structures

Since aim of the program is image manipulation and conversions main data structure that we operate on is image data stored in unsigned char array that is returned by GetData() method from wxImage class.

@subsection modules 4.4 Modules extraction and definition




@subsection tools 4.5 Programing and tools

All team members used Visual Studio 2019 code editor. Library wxWidgets 3.0.4 was used for UI/GUI implementation. To simplify process of GUI creation we decided to make use of wxFormBuilder. Documentation was generated by Doxygen. For task tracking Trello task management app was used - it allowed us to have a look at current stage of each task at any moment in time.


@section work_split 5. Wrok split and time analysis

@section algorithms 6. Algorithms

@section coding 7. Coding

Whole code and structure are documented in Doxygen.

@section testing 8. Testing

Every module functionality was tested shortly after module was finished to ensure ourselves that everything worked fine so we could move forward without worrying about previous things.

Sliders functionality was tested with special rainbow image:

<zdj od Marcina z tęczą>

@section summary 9. Deployment, conclusions, report
